.\" WR - 2018"

.TH ADD_CONCATENATION 3  2018-08-08 "DAPL" "DAPL Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
add_concatenation - Create a new field based on the values of other fields.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include externs.h
.sp
.BI "void add_concatenation(char " "*NEW_FIELDNAME" ,char " "*FIELDNAME_LIST )
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
The
.BR add_concatenation ()
function creates a new field value associated with the new fieldname NEW_FIELDNAME.
The new field value contains a concatenation of all the field values associated with
the fieldnames specified in FIELDNAME_LIST.
Initially, the function tests to see if the current record contains a field 
.BR _DROP 
with a positive value. If the result is positive, then 
.BR add_attributes() 
returns without performing any function.
The values associated with each of the fieldnames specified in FIELDNAME_LIST are then extracted
and concatenated together to form a new field value that is stored and associated with NEW_FIELDNAME
If any of the fields specified in FIELDNAME_LIST are missing, then they are simply ignored. 
If the new field value exceeds MAX_FIELDVALUE_LENGTH, then it will be truncated.
.fi
.SH EXAMPLE:
If field "year" contains the value 1999, field "month" contains the value 12 and field "day" 
contains the value 21, then:
add_concatenation("DTG","year month day")
would result in a new field "DTG" that contains the value 19991221.

.SH USAGE:
Loop code block only.
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUE: 
add_concatenation () returns void.
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO:
draw_node draw_chain draw_path 
.SH BUGS:
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR:
WR
