.\" Manpage for gcountry_server.
.\" Contact WR to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "17 June 2018" "1.0" "gcountry_server man page"

.SH NAME
gcountry_server \- A daemon service provides an IPV4 country diagraph lookup

.SH SYNOPSIS 
gcountry_server is intended to be run as a daemon process through systemctl(1)

.SH DESCRIPTION
.BI gcountry_server
is a front-end sockets server that provides access to a database of country diagraphs for the IPV4
address space.
.br
Queries sent to the server should be formatted as a single dotted decimal notated IP address.
Results are returned as single line record(s) of the form:
.sp
.RS
.BI  COUNTRY_DIAGRAPH,COUNTRY_NAME
.RE
.sp
The listening port number is defined by the shell variable 
.BI $GCOUNTRY_PORT
.
.br
The location of the country database is defined by the shell variable 
.BI $GREFERENCE.

.SH OPTIONS
The server is normally invoked by systemctl(1). 
.PP
Create a controlling BASH script (E.G. /usr/local/sbin/gcountryd):
.sp
.RS
#!/bin/bash 
.br
GREFERENCE=[Path to country database]
.br
export GREFERENCE
.br
GCOUNTRY_PORT=[chosen listening port]
.br
export GCOUNTRY_PORT
.br
/usr/local/bin/gcountry_server
.RE
.PP
then create the service file (E.G /etc/systemd/system/gcountryd.service):
.sp
.RS
[Unit]
.br
After=sshd.service
.br
[Service]
.br
ExecStart=/usr/local/sbin/gcountryd
.br
[Install]
.br
WantedBy=multi-user.target
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
gcountry(1), systemctl(1) 
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH NOTES
If the
.BI $GREFERENCE
directory is mounted on a solid state drive timely responses can be expected. Performance will
degrade significantly if spinning rust is used.
.br
.sp
The server may be subjected to iterative calls and like all network services, benefits from
good connectivity.
.SH AUTHOR
WR 
