.\" Manpage for gdns_server.
.\" Contact WRto correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "17 June 2018" "1.0" "gdns_server man page"

.SH NAME
gdns_server \- A daemon service providing read access to a database of IPV4 hostnames

.SH SYNOPSIS 
gdns_server is intended to be run as a daemon process through systemctl(1)

.SH DESCRIPTION
.BI gdns_server
is a front-end sockets server that provides access to set of stripped historic DNS AUTH queries 
stored by the Bash script 
.BI dns_auth_update(1)
. Queries sent to the server should be formatted as a single dotted decimal notated IP address.
Results are returned as single line record(s) of the form:
.sp
.RS
.BI  IP_ADDRESS,HOST_NAME,DATE_LAST_NOTED
.RE
.sp
The listening port number is defined by the shell variable 
.BI $GDNS_PORT
.
.br
The historic DNS database location is defined by the shell variable 
.BI $GREFERENCE
.
.br
Diagnostic messages are written to Syslog.

.SH OPTIONS
The server is normally invoked by systemctl(1). 
.PP
Create a controlling BASH script (E.G. /usr/local/sbin/gdnsd):
.sp
.RS
#!/bin/bash 
.br
GREFERENCE=[Path to DNS database]
.br
export GREFERENCE
.br
GDNS_PORT=[chosen listening port]
.br
export GDNS_PORT
.br
.RE
.PP
then create the service file (E.G /etc/systemd/system/gdnsd.service):
.sp
.RS
[Unit]
.br
After=sshd.service
.br
[Service]
.br
ExecStart=/usr/local/sbin/gdnsd
.br
[Install]
.br
WantedBy=multi-user.target
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
gdns(1), dns_auth_update(1), systemctl(1) 
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH NOTES
If the
.BI $GREFERENCE
directory is mounted on a solid state drive timely responses can be expected. Performance will
degrade significantly if spinning rust is used.
.br
.sp
The server may be subjected to iterative calls and like all network services, benefits from
good connectivity.
.SH AUTHOR
WR 
